Describe the data set you have utilized to date. What types of attributes are there, how many attributes, how many examples, and how have you partitioned the data for the purpose of development/training/validation/testing.

We spent a lot of time writing scripts, using various APIs, and scouring the web to scrape data from various sites to obtain various attributes. The big data set we have compiled so far includes 5800 songs from 1958 to 2015. All of these songs were part of the Billboard Year-End Top 100 list. We can easily improve this data set by including songs not necessarily on that list in the near future. They also include all Record-Of-The-Year Grammy winners and nominees. Some example attributes out of the 20 we have collected include popularity, genre, word_count, and even danceability. We ran 10-fold cross validation on the entire data set for now. 


song_title,spotify_id,artist,year,popularity,genre,danceability,energy,key,loudness,mode,speechiness,acousticness,instrumentalness,liveness,valence,tempo,duration_ms,time_signature,word_count,reading_ease,polarity,subjectivity,is_winner,is_nominee




Plans for remainder of quarter (for data set)

Regarding the data set, there are many modifications we would like to make in order to both expand our data set and better our model. The most obvious is to include more songs, particularly those which are not part of the Billboard Year-End Top 100 list. This list is not very comprehensive because it does not include songs that may have been a top 100 song during the year, but was knocked off the list by the time the year came to a close. Also, including songs that perhaps never made the top 100 list is an interesting idea we will explore. Aside from expanding the data set, we will definitely work on obtaining more attributes. We are currently trying to scrape data about the ethnicities of the artists as well as their ages. For our particular model, having as many different attributes as possible is beneficial because we can then select the best combination of them, as well as exclude those which don't help the model.